#    -*- mode: org -*-
* Introduction To AxsJAX 

** What Is AxsJAX?


Web 2.0 is powered by AJAX --- Asynchronous JavaScript And
XML. AxsJAX leverages AJAX techniques to inject accessibility
support into  Web 2.0 applications.

** What New Opportunities Does AxsJAX  Open Up?

AJAX techniques have helped Web developers create live
applications within Web browsers. The AxsJAX framework helps
inject accessibility features into these applications so that
users of adaptive technologies such as screen-readers and
self-voicing browsers experience the same level of interactivity
that is now taken for granted by users of Web 2.0 applications.

** What Are Its Accessibility Goals?

Our  accessibility goals include but are not limited to:

  - Discover and codify design patterns  for access-enabling AJAX applications.
  - Serve as a test-bed for implementors of adaptive technologies
    in extending their tools to handle Web 2.0 applications.
  - Help discover and fill-in  gaps  in the various
    standards  that deal with the accessibility of AJAX
    applications.

    
** AxsJAX Uses JavaScript --- Isn't That Inaccessible?

Web applications that use JavaScript have traditionally proven an
access barrier to screen-reader users for the following reasons:

  - Adaptive technologies cannot always interpret the meaning of
    actions invoked via JavaScript.
  - Asynchronous page updates leave screenreaders  at a loss as
    to what to speak.

A set of W3C specifications collectively refered to as 
W3C ARIA is addressing these issues. Though AJAX applications will
continue to remain unusable from legacy browsers like lynx,
there is no reason why they should remain forever inaccessible to
users of adaptive technologies.

Finally, JavaScript in the browser is a powerful mechanism that
has enabled us turn the Web from a world of static documents to a
platform for deploying dynamic end-user applications. The primary
goal of the AxsJAX framework 
is to leverage these same advantages presented by JavaScript in
the browser to create flexible, powerful accessibility solutions.

** Is AxsJAX Specific To Google Applications?


We are open-sourcing the AxsJAX framework early in its
development to foster a healthy community around the concept of
access-enabling Web applications by injecting accessibility
enhancements  via JavaScript.

AxsJAX  initially targets  Google applications. As we
discover design patterns that work, we are refactoring these into
common modules that foster code reuse. Notice that these common
modules are not Google specific, and can be leveraged to inject
accessibility enhancements to *any* application deployed on the
Web.


** What Are The Long-term Goals For AxsJAX?


The long-term goals of AxsJAX  will be largely end-user driven.
This initial release hints at the type of end-user benefits that
can be enabled via such a framework.
Our goal is to create a healthy community built on an open
framework for enhancing the accessibility of Web 2.0
applications.

** How Is AxsJAX Pronounced?

AxsJAX is pronounced Access Jax  to rhyme with AJAX.

* AxsJAX Technical Overview

** How Does AxsJAX Leverage W3C ARIA?


W3C ARIA is a collection of specifications that is presently
under development at the W3C.
Early support for W3C ARIA is available in Firefox 2.0, and its
features are beginning to be leveraged by newer versions of
screenreaders.

W3C ARIA works by enhancing the  DOM with accessibility specific
properties. The AxsJAX framework enables the injection of such
DOM properties into existing Web applications via JavaScript.
It provides a light-weight yet flexibile mechanism for
experimenting with various design patterns for enhancing the
accessibility of AJAX applications.

** What Google Applications Does It presently Enhance?


  - Google Reader
  - Google Search 

** How Does  AxsJAX  Help Screenreader Vendors?


The set of specifications collectively known as W3C ARIA 
is still under active development. Applications that have been
enhanced via AxsJAX provide real-life examples for testing ARIA
support within new versions of screen-readers.
Thus, whereas individual test-suites help screen-reader
developers test support for a given feature, AxsJAX  enabled
applications provide 
live examples for carrying out end-to-end testing.

** How Does AxsJAX Help The Evolution Of Access Standards?


W3C ARIA is still under active development. By access-enabling
complete applications, AxsJAX helps in the development of the W3C
ARIA specifications by discovering what works and by identifying
gaps that  need to be filled.


#+TITLE:     AxsJAX Frequently Asked Questions
#+AUTHOR:    T.V Raman, Charles L Chen
#+EMAIL:     raman@google.com, clchen@google.com
#+LANGUAGE:  en
#+OPTIONS:   H:3 num:t toc:t \n:nil @:t ::t |:t ^:t f:t *:t TeX:t LaTeX:nil skip:t p:nil
